---
title: U2F key
layout: post
date: 2020-01-04
---

I had enabled 2FA on most online accounts few months back. This was after
- my Netflix account was hacked
- my primary email showed by in [haveibeenpwned.com](//haveibeenpwned.com) and the current state shows 13 breaches

The 2FA mechanism I used was either SMS or via Google Authenticator app. For services that supported both, I had enabled both for redundancy.

Both of these came with their friction
- SMS codes required access to phone & service to be available that becomes tricky when phone is switched off or while traveling internationally
- Google Authenticator requires re-setup upon phone change or reset

A more "seamless" alternative is using [U2F keys](https://www.yubico.com/solutions/fido-u2f/). It gets plugged like an USB key and whenever a 2FA is requested, you press the button on the key and the 2FA goes through. This becomes a "what you have" factor of authentication.


### Setup
I purchased a pair of cheapest available [U2F keys from Amazon](https://amzn.to/2GohVxY). By now, I've setup the following services on it
- Online services - Facebook, Github, Google, Twitter
- Mac - sudo prompt, login from screen lock

Setting up for the online services was straightforward with Chrome. Their respective settings page had options to add a security key. The process was a bit involved for setting up for mac prompts. [This post by Sean Anderson](https://microamps.gibsjose.com/u2f-authentication-on-os-x/) goes into the steps to achieve it.

### Cons
- The key I had purchased didn't support NFC or Bluetooth - so it doesn't work my phone.
- The keys need to be on you when you need to use them. Also, it is recommended to have a pair of them, should you lose one.

### Pros
- It just works.

--
*this was written quite a while ago*
